In Praise of the Livestock Deity Namo guru deva dākiṇyai. If one wants to praise the deity residing at the feeding trough of one's horses and livestock, one should construct a small palace-like shrine on top of each of their enclosures. One then decorates that with resin and colored yarn and the like. It is good if extensive rituals can be carried out, such as a wide-ranging collection of smoke offerings, offerings of good food in the four directions, the purification of obstacle-creating demons, and cleansing with smoke offerings. However, if this is not possible, one should sprinkle cleansing water accompanied by the mantras of Vajravidāraṇa, Bhurkuṃkūṭa, and so on. OṂ I perform the cleansing ritual with mantra water- Ritual nectar water, which has been cleaned and purified, Blessed through profound dhāraṇīs and mantras. And so I have purified the violent obstacle-creating demons in this place- I have purified the defilements and the impurities that have accumulated By performing the cleansing ritual for the deities and protectors Who lead the horses and the livestock. All the defilements of incestuous and murderous pollution and impurities Are now pure, like polished crystal; They are pure and brilliant, glowing in radiance Like when rays of sun hit the snow. May the appearance of good fortune spread everywhere! OṂ ŚUDDHE ŚUDDHE SVĀDHANA YE SVĀHĀ One recites this and sprinkles water all around the enclosures. Then, with regard to the water vessel for the smoke offerings: Hey! Where did the smoke offering originate from? A slight drizzle of rain fell from the sky And warmth and wetness encompassed the earth. Through the auspicious coincidence of combined heat and moisture, There in the middle region grew a fragrant medicinal tree. With dewdrops of wisdom nectar, It was enchanting to look at and very radiant. The mere experience of its scent cleared the realms and fields Of the torment of defilements and impurities. Such a marvelous great tree We burn in a blazing fire. We add the best of all kinds of white and sweet foods. It has the essence of precious grains and medicines, And because it has been blessed by mantras and mudrās, Oceans of sensory objects arise From each of the plumes of smoke. Then recite NAMAḤ SARVATATHĀGATABHYO VIŚVĀ three times along with mudrās. Then increase this further with VAJRA SPHARAṆA KHAṂ. Hey! You whose unimpeded physical bodies Arise from the state of the natural dharmadhātu- The Buddha, Dharma, and Saṅgha, The Guru, Yidam, and Ḍākinī, The dharma protectors, protectors, and assembly of cattle deities- On account of your compassion, please come to this place! Please partake in the offerings of smoke and peace! I make an offering with a libation, the best kind of nectar. Please make the great blessings of supreme wisdom Descend on this corral with horses and livestock! 
